All business operations
are documented in accordance
with the current legislation.
This documentation is accepted
by the accountants of the company and
is reflected in the accounting.
The diversity of existing
documents can be grouped by certain
characteristics.
The documents may
be compulsory,
comptable and
justifiable.
An example of the ordering documents is
the order of the head or the organization
contract, let us say, the delivery
contract.
Combined documents are payment and
calculation information when calculating
with staff.
Accounting documents
are such as accounting
certificates.
Justification documents are
the receipt of goods.
At the time of drafting, documents
can be primary, can be summary.
Primary documents, which are drawn
up initially, say, the payment order
of the organization, the summary, the
register of documents, all the payment
orders for one day of the organization.
Documents are divided into one-
time and cumulative information.
Documents at the place of drafting
are external and internal.
For example, an external bill from a
supplier, an internal document is an income
order of the organization itself.
The documents can look
like table, questionnaire
and combined.
It is better when the design and
processing of primary documents by
managers takes place in close contact
with accounting.
This will avoid unnecessary mistakes
in the processing of documents.
In any organization it is necessary
to identify those who are
directly related to the processing
of primary documentation and to train
them to correctly process them.
The term of storage of primary
documents is legally fixed
in Russia for at least five
years.
The responsibility for storage
and correct filling is not the accountant,
but the manager.
All business operations must
be accompanied by justifiable documents.
These documents serve as primary
accounting documents, on the basis
of which accounting is kept.
Internal documents
are included.
These are the requirements of the arrival
order, orders, external documents, accounts, bills.
The documents can be
multilateral, such as a
trilateral treaty, a
multilateral act.
For each business, a specific
document must be drawn up.
For example, I would like to draw your attention
to a summary table of different situations.
Suppose the main assets are reflected
as a contribution to the authorized capital.
What documents will be needed for this?
This requires statutory documents.
The main funds received
from the founders.
The transfer is made on the basis of the
drawing up of the act of reception of the
transfer of the principal funds.
The process of acquiring the main
assets also consists of
several stages.
A sales contract is signed and
an invoice is issued.
The listed legal entities for the
main funds the organization pays.
There will be a statement from the account
and a payment order of the organization.
To receive the basic funds, a
goods and transportation bill is
issued and accompanied by a invoice.
The main funds of accounting
are taken on balance sheet.
This document is drawn up as an act of acceptance
of the transfer of the principal funds.
The main funds are transferred to
the current long-term lease.
For this purpose, a lease contract
is drawn up and a payment invoice is issued.
To record the transfer of the principal assets
to the lease recipient, an act of acceptance
of the transfer of the principal assets
is drawn up.
The moment of receipt of the rent is
recorded by a statement from the account
of the organization.
This is an example of documentation
of certain operations.
The justification documents
in the organization confirm the
fact of the economic transaction.
Examples of justifiable documents
can be income and expenditure
bills, various acts, cash
checks and other documents.
Accounting documents
are usually handled
by accounting staff.
These documents do not contain facts
that confirm the commission of
economic transactions.
These are the accountant's calculations,
these are the accountant's certificates,
which are prepared in the accounting
office and serve as the basis for further
accounting records.
Accounting registers are documents
of analytical and synthetic accounting,
records, journals, archives, accounting
books, but they are not the
subject of our consideration
in this course.
Combined documents contain the
signs of both orders and justificative
documents.
Suppose the charge requirement for the
release of materials from the warehouses
of production, the cargo and transportation
charge, the calculation and payment
notice for the issuance of
wages and so on.
I will try to explain what the
combination of this document consists of.
Take a calculation and
payment note for payroll.
The first function that performs
the document is the
accounting document.
The accountant shall make this report
for persons receiving wages.
It calculates wages and
determines the amount
to be paid.
The function of this document is regulatory.
After the payment report was transferred
to the cash office, it serves
as the basis for the issuance
of salary to each employee.
And after the salary is issued, the signatures
of all employees are received
that they received the money, this
is an excuse document for the
cashier, that the money from
the cash he issued.
Primary documents are drawn up at
the time of the economic transactions.
Documents for receipt and release
of materials, payroll calculation,
shipment of products,
cash orders, payment
orders and so on.
Summary documents are the first
stage of the generalization of
information, which is contained
in several primary documents that
precede their accounting processing.
Let us say that these are commodity reports
of the person responsible for the matter, or
the cash reports of the cashier, or
reports of the person responsible
for the expenditure of the cash advance.
Thus, the data of primary documents
are summarized by the calculation
and payment records also on wages.
The documents on which the
business transactions are made, come
to your accountant, where they are subjected
to three types of checks.
This is a formal check, when the accountant
checks the correctness of the documentation
in the form, whether all sections
of the document are filled, whether
all the details are filled, whether
they are filled correctly,
whether the details are fully filled.
The second check, the substance
check of the document, involves
determining the legality of the
business transaction, which is documented
in this document.
And finally, the third check, the arithmetic
check of the correctness of
the calculation of the data of the document.
The accountant is obliged to calculate whether
everything is correct, all data is
entered in the document.
What should I do to avoid mistakes
in the first place?
The head of the organization must build
a scheme of the turnover document.
The person who makes the document,
who checks this document and
who, on the basis of the document,
already performs either the
release of the goods or the acceptance
of the goods, or summarizes
the work performed.
To analyze typical errors and teach
all those who are relevant to the design
of the first-person, the basic
rules of design.
Organizing the internal control service.
Modern and qualitative registration
of primary accounting documents,
their transfer within the established
time for reflection in accounting,
as well as the reliability of
the data contained in them, are
provided by the persons who have compiled
and signed these documents.
An example of the scheme of the turnover
document is given in your textbook and
given in a video lecture in the form of a table.
For example, to issue a travel card
to the driver, this document must
be drawn up by either a controller or
a mechanic, or it is drawn up by the
driver himself.
For what period is this document drawn up?
For the period of the flight, this document
must be drawn up daily by the employees of the organization.
Who will process the document?
The person responsible, the accountant,
is appointed and these documents
are processed daily.
When transferred to the archive,
the responsible person is also fixed who must
hand this document over to the archive,
and the period of transfer to the archive,
for example, after the reporting period.
During the month, the accountant collects
the travel sheets and eventually submits
them to the archive.
Other documents are also presented
in the table.
This is an example of drawing up a schedule
of a turnover document in a table form.
I want to remind you a little
about the literary situation.
Think of Bulgakov.
I remembered this dialogue.
Where did this Makhta come from, and who
knows it?
Did he have a contract with him?
It must be assumed, was the concerned Vasily
Stepanovich answered.
If he had to go through
the accounting system?
All of course, was worried Vasily Stepanovich
answered.
No, replied the accountant, getting more and
more pale and dividing his hands.
Indeed, neither the accounting
files, nor the Findirector, nor Lehodeev,
nor Varenoh has any traces
of the contract.
No accounting rules, no documents,
no conductions.
The fact of the reflection of
the business transaction in
accounting and tax accounting is
present, but the primary documents
and business contracts are either
absent in general, or presented
in dubious copies, or are incomplete.
This is just a date error
that leads to negative
and financial consequences
and tax consequences.
There is a situation where the
head of the organization does
not agree with the accountant's opinion.
How in this case?
In the event of disagreements between
the head of the organization and
the chief accountant on the performance
of individual business operations, the
primary accounting documents on them
may be accepted for execution with
the written order of the
head of the organization.
The manager bears full responsibility
for the consequences of such
transactions and the inclusion
of data about them
in accounting.
If the manager has ordered, the accountant
is obliged to include these
data in the accounting.
If the supervisory authorities
require the removal of the primary.
Accounting documents may be
withdrawn only by the preliminary
investigation and prosecution
bodies, courts, tax inspections
on the basis of their decisions
in accordance with
the legislation of
the Russian Federation.
Remember that the withdrawal order should
contain a clear list of the documents
withdrawn and the reason for
their withdrawal.
The withdrawal of documents for simple
verification is not provided
by the current legislation.
The chief accountant or other official
of the organization shall have the right,
with the permission in the presence of representatives
of the bodies carrying out the withdrawal
of documents, to remove copies thereof,
indicating the grounds and date of withdrawal.
The form of primary documents
that are taken to account accountants
are developed and approved
by statistical bodies.
At the moment, such forms even
in the classification
of their homogeneity
there is quite a large number.
For example, there are forms for the accounting
of personnel, for the accounting of working
time and calculations with personnel, for the
accounting of works in capital construction,
for the accounting of products,
commodity and material values, for the accounting
of monetary settlements with the
population, with the use of check-
in-cash machines, for the accounting
of trade and cash operations,
for the accounting of inventory results,
for the accounting of basic assets and
intangible assets, for the accounting
of materials, for the accounting
of works in automotive transport and
so on.
Many of them are received by the accountant
after these documents pass through the
hands of the manager or an ordinary
employee of the organization.
What mandatory details should
be in these documents?
The name of the document contains the
financial and economic content
of the business transaction.
A document without a name, as well
as documents with an unclear,
poorly readable name, have no
legal force.
The accountant must understand what
document he works with to
determine the business transaction
he should be registered
in the accounting.
Often with the name should be indicated
payment, tax, registration and
postal details of the parties,
legal entities and individuals
involved in the conduct of
this business transaction, which
is reflected in this document.
A document in which there is
no name of the details, at least one
of the parties to the operation, loses
its addressability and cannot be accepted
for execution.
A mandatory date is the date of
drafting the document.
In case of vague writing or
absence of a date, the document
loses its period of time in which
it should be recorded.
In fact, such a document also
has no legal force.
The content of the business
operation is also mandatory.
It derives from the name of the
document in which it is reflected in
general form.
The need for strict compliance
of the name of the document
with the content of the business
transactions is determined
by the principle of
objectivity of registration
in accounting documents.
The document must contain
measuring of the economic
operation.
Measures can be natural in
units of weight, size,
labor in human hours and money.
According to the law of the Russian Federation
in rubles, the absence of a meter in
the document deprives it of the
accounting basis.
If you have to work with commodity
values that have the dimension
of money, but in the money
marks of other countries, then
it is allowed to add another
column to this document, in which
the units of other countries
will be converted into the
unit of Russia in rubles.
The document must have the signatures
of the responsible persons with the decoding
of their positions and the names
of their father.
The first signature must belong to the
head of the organization,
the credit manager, the director,
for example, the CEO, and the second
to the chief accountant.
Mandatory details for the
primary document.
Once again, I will name them, this
is the name of the document, the
name of the details of the parties, the
date of drafting, the content of the
business transaction, the measuring of the business
transaction and the signatures of the
responsible persons.
Failure to comply with any
of the normative requirements for the
registration of documents may serve
as a reason for employees of
the control bodies to doubt the authenticity
of the document submitted
to them, the consequence of which
may be the exclusion of the
costs of such documents from
the cost of the products produced,
the emergence of disputes
over the correctness of the
calculation of profits.
Thus, for example, in the absence
of documents confirming
the fact of using certain resources
in the production process,
during documentary inspection,
tax officials may recognize
the wrongful write-
off of costs on the cost
of products, other negative
consequences of incorrect
documentation.
Well, for example, here is the situation first look at.
The calculation of wages by the
workers for the manufacture of parts
was made on the basis of orders
that were not signed by the master
or the head of the shop.
The absence of the official's
signature on the work drawing
may mean both that such work
was not done at all,
and that the work was
actually done, but it
was not necessary.
In the first case, we have the fact
of counterfeiting documents and
the fact of theft of money, if
the worker has already received
an unjustified wage, as well as
a low cost of ownership, and in
the second the irrational
use of the enterprise and the
low cost of ownership.
In this case, the organization
will have to look for other ways
to prove the actual implementation
of costs and their
production orientation.
One of the evidence can be documents
confirming the delivery of ready
parts to the warehouse, to
the warehouse.
However, in order to prove that the
parts made by incorrectly decorated
clothes were delivered to the warehouse,
it will be necessary to analyze
all available documents in
the organization, the movement
of materials and finished products
and make an inventory
in the warehouse.
As you can see, obtaining
evidence, although possible, is
quite time-consuming.
And with the running accounting,
when the wrongly drawn documents
are enough, it is probably difficult
to at all.
The next situation in the invoice for
receipt from the warehouse of materials
is not a date.
The absence of a date in the invoice
for receiving materials from the warehouse
does not allow to establish in
what reporting period the
materials were received.
To establish this, again, you
will have to make an inventory
of materials and products
made with their use.
To carry out a comparative analysis
of material movements, allowances
for use in production and delivery
of finished products for
each reporting period.
Compare the data obtained with the data
on the implementation of the finished products.
Time of first.
The primary accounting documents should
be drawn up at the time of the economic
transaction, and if this is impossible
for objective reasons,
then immediately after its
completion.
This is due to the fact that the
main purpose of primary accounting
documents is to fix the fact
of the economic transaction.
In order to ensure that the document
flow is not overloaded, according
to the legislation of the Russian
Federation, the organization can refine
the recommended standard forms of documents
taking into account the specifics
of its activities.
For example, add additional details.
Organizations issue cash
to employees for the account
of operating expenses in the amount
and for the time period determined
by the manager.
Persons receiving cash under the report
are obliged not later than three
working days after the expiry of
the period for which they are issued,
or from the day of return from a business
trip, to present to the accounting
office a document called
an advance report.
Report on the expended amounts and
make a final calculation on them.
In practice, it is often the case
when an employee acquires for his own
account for the needs of the
employer any material values, not only
without receiving money, but even
without having permission to act in
the interests of the organization.
Such authorization to act in the interests
of the organization gives it a mandate
from the organization.
If the order of the head to issue an
advance is absent, it turns
out that the employee of
the organization has bought any
property, and then sells it
to his home office.
Therefore, when the enterprise pays
off the debt to the employee,
there is not the issuance of excess
expenses, but the payment of property
under the contract of sale and receipt
of the natural person already
receiving income.
There is a limit of cash
payments between legal
entities or between
a legal entity and individual
entrepreneurs.
This is 100,000
rubles per contract.
This is the Bank of Russia.
There is an orbit practice that
shows that the responsibility
in case of exceeding
the limit should be engaged
only the party contributing
funds above the established
limit.
What if in the outpouring of
the primary document, say, the
same bills are inaccuracies,
and if the cash document
is issued?
Corrections to cash and bank
documents are not allowed, and in
the other primary accounting
documents corrections may
be made in agreement with
the persons who have drawn
up and signed these documents.
This must be confirmed by the signatures
of the same persons, indicating the
date of the correction.
More details can also be read
in the textbook.
Let us take an example of corrections.
The master of the sewing shop, a person
who is materially responsible,
issued a complaint for the receipt
of 120 meters of satin green
from the warehouse.
The head of the sewing shop,
signing the request for a bill,
ordered to get 150 meters of fabric.
To correct the mistake, the master
of the sewing shop must scratch
the inscription 120, put 150 and
write "corrected" by 150 next
to it.
Under the correction record
is the date of correction.
Corrective record is certified by the signature
of the master with the indication of his
post of the surname of the head of the shop.
Subsequently, the other persons
who will sign this document must
also submit their signature under
the correctional record.
Head of the Supply Department, warehouse
warehouse.
Thus, if the correction is made at
the initial stage of drafting
the document, it is better not
to correct it, probably, but to
make it again.
For tax purposes, the
same primary documents
are accepted as those used
in accounting.
Examples can also be found
in the e-book.
Financial transactions
with cash.
I want to stop a little on this process.
Types of transactions are the receipt of
cash from the bank, the conclusion of
a contract, a loan.
The list of persons who have the right to
sign the primary accounting documents
shall be approved by the
head of the organization in
agreement with the chief accountant.
Documents that are issued for economic
transactions with funds shall be
signed by the heads of
the organization, the chief accountant
or the persons authorized
by them.
Without the signature of the chief
accountant or the person authorized
by him, the financial and
credit obligations shall
be considered invalid
and shall not be accepted
for execution.
If there is a situation when a document
is required to be signed by a
person, but it is not indicated in
the list of persons entitled to sign
the relevant documents, then the
employee must be authorized to
perform these actions by a special
order of the head of the organization.
This order must be issued
by the accountant.
If authorization is issued
for the signing of monetary or
settlement documents, as well as
financial or credit obligations,
or the employee shall
be granted a corresponding
authorization.
If a document is signed by an inappropriate
person, the validity
of such a document is
disputed.
And any of the parties to the transaction,
as well as third parties on this
basis, may insist on recognizing
the invalidity of not only the
document, but the transaction itself.
If the organization subsequently approves
the actions performed by the employees,
the economic transaction under
the Russian legislation shall
be considered to have been performed
on behalf of the organization.
What happens if accounting
documents are lost?
Let us try to estimate the extent of the disaster.
There are different
types of liability, administrative
and criminal liability.
In what cases?
The loss of accounting documents is
the responsibility of not only
the organization, but also
its officials.
For violation of the terms and procedure
for storage of documents
administrative fines
on officials.
Officials mean the CEO,
accountant or the person
responsible for the
security of documents.
The amount of administrative fine can
be imposed in the amount of 2 to 3
thousand rubles.
Officials of the organization
are also subject to criminal
liability for non-representation of
accounting documents, tax
authorities, and if these actions
have resulted in failure to pay
taxes in a large or large amount.
Let us introduce a group
of documents
such as orders.
As I said, they are subject
to various orders, powers,
contracts and contracts.
We will pay more attention to contracts and contracts.
On the basis of such
an ordering document, such as
a contract or contract,
you can form a number of primary
accounting documents.
A goods accompanying document, for example,
for the shipment of
goods and material values.
Payment document for payment
of received values, act of
performed works, rendered services
and so on.
The choice of type of contract and
errors in the drafting of the contract
can lead to serious tax consequences.
In order to ensure the correctness of
accounting and tax accounting, it is recommended
to write, in addition to accounting
policies, also a contractual policy.
An example of such a contractual policy,
the basis of its drafting, I want
to give an example of a sale transaction.
Let us consider the four situations that
may arise during the transaction.
The contract provides for
the prior payment of goods, and the right
of ownership passes at the time
of their shipment.
Is it beneficial to the buyer?
Is it beneficial to the supplier?
Let us look at more in detail.
The buyer at this point has
a distraction of the isoborot
funds, and the supplier has
a free loan.
Conditions are advantageous for the seller and not
advantageous for the buyer.
If the pre-payment of goods is
provided by the contract, and
the right of ownership passes only
at the time of their payment,
the buyer becomes the owner
of the goods.
The goods can be resold by the
buyer directly from the supplier's warehouse.
The VAT on the goods can be presented
by the buyer.
Conditions are advantageous for the buyer,
but the seller is also advantageous,
because money for the goods he receives
immediately at the time of
shipment of the goods.
The following situation is when
the contract provides for subsequent
payment of goods, and the right
of ownership passes at the time
of their shipment.
The seller loses the right
of ownership of the goods and
thus credits the buyer.
The buyer before their payment is
given free goods credit.
Conditions are advantageous for the buyer and not advantageous
for the seller.
Subsequent payment of goods with
transfer of ownership at the time
of payment.
This is a very interesting situation when
the seller organizations seem to insure themselves
against delays in the performance of
the buyers conditions in the payment
of the goods.
But in practice, the buyer, having received
the goods, begins to resell them before
the moment of payment.
And tracking this situation is difficult,
especially if the batches of goods are large.
This option of concluding a contract
is effective for the seller only
in relation to certain goods, or
individual, or some artificial
deliveries.
Then we will talk about the price of the
transaction, which can be fixed by the contract.
The party to the contract shall,
except for cases specially specified
by regulatory documents,
independently, at its
discretion, establish the
price of the contract and
the conditions for its possible change.
I want to focus your attention here on
the fact that in the contract
is obligatory, in addition to the price
and the transaction, also
the value added tax.
If you forget to write this in the
contract, then there may be a situation
that your counterparty will require
a supplementary payment under
this contract in the amount
of value added tax.
That is, in any case, you
must write in the contract, or
include the agreed price value
added tax, or this tax is charged
above the transaction price
and specify this amount.
In cases where the price is not provided
for in the contract and cannot be determined
on the basis of the terms of the contract,
that is, the performance
of the contract must be paid at
the price that is usually charged
for similar works or services
under comparable circumstances.
According to the general rules, this
is the Vienna Convention.
Choosing a contractor must
also be smart.
Before entering into a contract, you
need to inquire about the legal
status of your counterparty.
Is it an organization of the common
taxation system or has it adopted
a simplified taxation system?
If the enterprise purchases
a good, work, service, and
is itself a VAT payer, it is
important for it that the
value of the goods
it purchases includes this
tax, which could be taken
into account.
That is, the contractor under
the contract, the supplier, is also
a VAT payer.
I want to show you this in a simple
number example.
Let us consider two options.
In the first version,
consumable materials
are purchased from organizations
that are not a VAT payer.
In the second option, the consumable
materials will be purchased
from organizations that are
VAT payers.
The calculations are in your eyes, you
can see them.
VAT to the budget with the products that
you manufacture, in the first
option will be, say, there 9 thousand
rubles, in the second option it will
be less than 3,600.
This already determines the outflow
of cash in the first option, it
is much more than in the second.
And we will also calculate the taxable profit.
The first option will make a profit
of about 11 thousand rubles, the second
option more than 20 thousand
rubles.
Decide which deal will be more
profitable for you.
The correctness of the registration of
the first-hand and the administrative
documents can significantly affect the
financial result of the enterprise.
The form of the primary documents can
be adapted to the specifics of the enterprise.
To avoid risks, training and regulation
of the activities of employees
that are relevant to the registration
of the first-rate is necessary.
The buughter and lawyer of the organization
are your internal advisors on the issues
of minimizing the risks associated
with the incorrect registration
of the first letter and
the regulatory documents.
In conclusion, I want to tell you that
I firmly believe that understanding
the financial reporting of an accounting
analyst will improve your
business growth prospects.
You never start playing football
without knowing the rules of
the game.
Knowledge of the basics of financial games
gives you the opportunity to look at your
work with a fresh look, to evaluate your
personal performance better than before,
to increase the profitability
of your business.
Now you can ask more professional
questions and your chief accountant,
for example.
How does it choose specific
time frames for depreciation?
Maybe when he gets the first
shock, he will also ask for
advice.